---
layout: post
title: "Test"
date: 2022-05-06
categories: ["Test"]
author: "Test"
lat: 34.1517
lng: -118.16097
runningtitle: "A Place of Work and Relaxation: How the Porch has Been Designed to Enforce Gendered Divisions of Labor and Leisure"
mapmarker: 
desc: "The proximity of the porch to spaces of “feminine labor” and to the surrounding garden function to exclude women and people of color"
---
  Examining the porch separately from the rest of the home, it might appear to be a place of relaxation for all living there and those passing through. However, in the context of the Greene and Greene brothers’ Arthur A. Libby House the strategic placement of the kitchen and maids dining room reveal the gendered boundaries of work and leisure that are imposed upon the porch. Additionally, the usage of the porch as a space of health and leisure necessitated that it be surrounded by a grand garden that obscured the artificial realm of the city and provided fresh air. I argue that the proximity of the porch to spaces of “feminine labor” and to the surrounding garden function to exclude women and people of color.
	While there are a total of three porches featured in the design of the Arthur Libby home, the screened porch in the upper right hand section of the drawing exemplifies this intersection between women's labor and leisure best. Surrounded by a kitchen, a cold room (used to store perishable food), and the maid's dining room, the screened porch is always within reach of the housewife or maid who would have worked in these areas. The screened porch in this instance is intended to “give the housewife or maid a chance to spend as much time as possible in the open air”. The idea of the porch as a place of relaxation is completely subverted for women in the home as they are more inclined to identify the porch with labor. Meanwhile, men continue to see the porch as an escape from labor, thus the idea that porches provide “freedom and relaxation for all” becomes the dominant narrative associated with porch life. 
	The porch is not merely defined by what is within it, but ultimately what lies around it. A central part of the porch, as a space of health and wellness, is the garden that surrounds it. The garden’s main purpose is to provide homeowners with fresh air and alleviate the stresses of the industrial world. The porch in figure 2 represents the epitome of what Arts and Crafts architects believed a porch should be, that is, a place for the man of the home to lounge and look out into the artificial wilderness of his garden. The tall ceilings and rounded edges of the porch offer the maximum amount of visibility into the garden as well as an increase in airflow. On the sleeping porch, the breadwinner of the home is able to break away from the stuffiness that characterizes the city and take in the openness of the porch, while still being sheltered by his comfortable furniture. In this particular photograph, the excessive amount of furniture signifies that this porch is a space of leisure. In stark contrast, the housewife’s porch in the Libby house features easy access to food storage and presumably a vegetable garden, signifying that it is a space of labor for the wife or maid of the home. Therefore, the porch is designed to directly communicate gendered divisions of labor and to regulate the behavior of women within the home.


#### Works cited

{:.bibliography}
1. Stickley, Gustav. Craftsman Houses: a Book for Home-Makers. New York City: The Craftsman Publishing Company, 1913. Hathitrust. 
